Security - updated presentations and added CVE assessment (#6501)
EnterpriseDB/docs: advocacy_docs/security/assessments/cve-2025-1094.mdx

---
title: CVE-2025-1094 - PostgreSQL quoting APIs miss neutralizing quoting syntax in text that fails encoding validation
navTitle: CVE-2025-1094
affectedProducts: All versions of PostgreSQL, EPAS and PGE prior to 17.3, 16.7, 15.11, 14.16, and 13.19
---

First Published: 2025/02/15

Last Updated: 2025/02/15

> Important: This is an assessment of the impact of CVE-2024-4317 on EDB products and services. It links to and details the CVE and supplements that information with EDB's own assessment.

Reviewer: This is a typo.. Should be CVE-2025-1094

Author: ```suggestion
Important: This is an assessment of the impact of CVE-2025-1094 on EDB products and services. It links to and details the CVE and supplements that information with EDB's own assessment.
```

## Summary

Improper neutralization of quoting syntax in PostgreSQL libpq functions `PQescapeLiteral()`, `PQescapeIdentifier()`, `PQescapeString()`, and `PQescapeStringConn()` allows a database input provider to achieve SQL injection in certain usage patterns. Specifically, SQL injection requires the application to use the function result to construct input to psql, the PostgreSQL interactive terminal. Similarly, improper neutralization of quoting syntax in PostgreSQL command line utility programs allows a source of command line arguments to achieve SQL injection when client_encoding is `BIG5` and server_encoding is one of `EUC_TW` or `MULE_INTERNAL`. Versions before PostgreSQL 17.3, 16.7, 15.11, 14.16, and 13.19 are affected.

## Vulnerability details

CVE-ID:  [CVE-2025-1094](https://www.postgresql.org/support/security/CVE-2025-1094/)

CVSS Base Score: 8.1

CVSS Temporal Score: Undefined

CVSS Environmental Score: Undefined

CVSS Vector: [AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v3-calculator?vector=AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H&version=3.0)

> ## Affected products and versions

Reviewer: @l0r3bo - Would you add anything on this "CVE assessment" to cover CNP or PGAI Cloud Service? We've not heard back from Leo and are hoping to publish this Monday.

Author: It doesn't need privileges; it's a malformation exception when a string is presented to psql. The source of that malformation is the libpq functions used to escape the string; in this case, you hit a bad BIG5 encoded character that emits a malformed UTF8 string, including the bytes of the bad BIG5 character. That includes a ; which is now in the "clean" output which includes a ; as a byte in a malformed UTF8 character, and now the clean output is represented to psql and the cleaned SQL statement reads something like select * from $#%; \! cat /etc/password... and you are only getting shell access to where psql is being executed. The BeyondTrust incident had this occurring on a remote security software application and it was this that got compromised; this issue is just part of the ladder.
